README.md, before:

# XVII

[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/xvii.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/xvii)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/archer884/xvii.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/archer884/xvii)


...Pronounced any way you like, including "seventeen."

This library provides parsing and formatting for Roman numerals. According to my (probably extremely suspect) benchmarks, this is the best-performing library of its kind available on crates.io (you know, as of St. Patrick's Day, 2017 when I did the tests), so you should definitely employ it in your high-availability NAAS (numerals-as-a-service) project.

(Seriously, though, read the license--no warranties implied!)

## Usage

### Parsing

Parsing is provided through Rust's ordinary `FromStr` trait, meaning you can create `Roman` values same as you create any other number--albeit with slightly simpler error cases, since the only possible errors are "Hey, that letter can't go in there," or "Dude, they go from 1 to 3999 and that's it!"

```rust
let seventeen: Roman = "XVII".parse().unwrap();
```

### Formatting

There are several formatting options. `Roman` implements `Display`, which means that it'll work fine with `println!("{}")` et al., but for maximum efficiency (stop laughing!) I also provide two other functions: `to_lowercase()` and `to_uppercase()`. These skip the `Display` piping and just go straight into a new string.

Regarding formatting, there is one gotcha regarding the formatting of `Roman` values created via `Roman::from_unchecked()`: values that are less than the minimum printable value will come out as empty strings, while values that are larger will simply look like `MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMXIV` or something like that.

## Roadmap

I'm thinking of stealing that feature from the other library where you can use the `"{:x}"` or `"{:X}"` formatters to choose upper vs. lower case in formatting.

## License

Licensed under either of

* Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE-APACHE][apc] or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
* MIT License ([LICENSE-MIT][mit] or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your option.

### Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be dual licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.

[apc]:https://github.com/archer884/xvii/blob/master/LICENSE-APACHE
[mit]:https://github.com/archer884/xvii/blob/master/LICENSE-MIT

Commit message:

Fix y4k bug
Apparently, 4999 is the largest accepted, commonly-expressible Roman numeral. The library previously had this value as 3999.

I attempted to just raise the hard-coded limit to 4999, but I discovered that even though the printing function was able to spit out the correct MCMCMCFUCK for 4999, the parsing function was apt to choke on it.

The new parsing function has a little more abstraction thrown in and behaves more predictably. The overall strategy (based on numeral units, if you recall) is unchanged, and it still reads everything in one shot, left to right.

README.md, after:

# XVII

[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/xvii.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/xvii)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/archer884/xvii.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/archer884/xvii)

...Pronounced any way you like, including "seventeen."

This library provides parsing and formatting for Roman numerals. According to my (probably extremely suspect) benchmarks, this is the best-performing library of its kind available on crates.io (you know, as of St. Patrick's Day, 2017 when I did the tests), so you should definitely employ it in your high-availability NAAS (numerals-as-a-service) project.

(Seriously, though, read the license--no warranties implied!)

Also, if you have a high-availability NAAS project, you need to have your head examined. I don't know if that was clear when I originally wrote this readme, so I'm adding it now.

## Usage

### Parsing

Parsing is provided through Rust's ordinary `FromStr` trait, meaning you can create `Roman` values same as you create any other number--albeit with slightly simpler error cases, since the only possible errors are "Hey, that letter can't go in there," or "Dude, they go from 1 to 3999 and that's it!"

```rust
let seventeen: Roman = "XVII".parse().unwrap();
```

### Formatting

There are several formatting options. `Roman` implements `Display`, which means that it'll work fine with `println!("{}")` et al., but for maximum efficiency (stop laughing!) I also provide two other functions: `to_lowercase()` and `to_uppercase()`. These skip the `Display` piping and just go straight into a new string.

Regarding formatting, there is one gotcha regarding the formatting of `Roman` values created via `Roman::from_unchecked()`: values that are less than the minimum printable value will come out as empty strings, while values that are larger will simply look like `MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMXIV` or something like that.

## Changelog

* *v0.2.2* Upgrade parsing to use some kind of whacky state machine in order to permit numbers up to the commonly accepted ceiling of 4999, or MMMMCMXCIX, thereby avoiding a potential Y4K bug. Your thousand year reich is now safe with me.

## License

Licensed under either of

* Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE-APACHE][apc] or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
* MIT License ([LICENSE-MIT][mit] or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

at your option.

### Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be dual licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.

[apc]:https://github.com/archer884/xvii/blob/master/LICENSE-APACHE
[mit]:https://github.com/archer884/xvii/blob/master/LICENSE-MIT
